Want to secure as an example allows you to automatically lock down the router using Siska best practices
but you need to be very careful choosing that option because you could lock yourself out of your own
router.
The router then shows you a summary of what you've configured and looking at some of the configuration.
Notice we gave the router a name of our one we configured the Viti y lines used for telnet and S-sh
with a password of Cisco.
So the options that were chosen through the initial configuration dialog have now been converted into
Cisco IOS commands that can be applied on the router at the end of the menu.
We are prompted with three options.
Zero go to the Iowas command prompt without saving this configuration.
And that's what we want to do.
1 return back to the set up with out saving this config to save this configuration to nv ram and exit
so we can choose 0 because we don't want to use the configuration from the initial configuration dialog.
We want to configure the router using Cisco Ioway commands you are told that you can to set up again
by using the set up command but we're not interested in doing that.
We're going to configure the router through the Selye commands.
So we're going to hit enter or press Return to get started on the CLIA.
And here we are.
You can see that we presented with a prompt and this is known as user mode.
Now as mentioned it's important that you get to know the various modes available on Cisco Rorrison switches.
The first mode is user mode.
Now the Cisco Iowas software is designed with a rock hill structure for various modes modes that you'll
encounter include user mode which we're discussing right now privileged mode which we'll talk about
in a moment as well as global configuration mode and other modes you can enter commands into the sea
a lie by typing or copying and pasting the commands through your terminal emulation software.
It's important that the right c'mon be topped in the right mood and the mood is indicated with a distinctive
prompt the term prompt is used because the system is prompting you to make an entry.
So by default every prompt begins with the device name which in this example would be Rodda because
we haven't configured the name of the device following the name.
The remainder of the prompt indicates the mode and in this case we are in user mode and we know that
because it has a greater than sign behind the name of the router as you enter commands Moat's can change.
So in a moment I'm going to show you how to type enable in user mode to go to privileged mode or enable
mode and you'll see that the prompt changes when you press enter or hit carriage return.
You're instructing the device to pass and execute the command that you've entered.
Now once again this mode is user mode and it only gives us a limited number of basic monitoring commands.
You can see the commands available in this mode by using question mark.
So when I use a question mark I can see the commands available in this mode.
Pressing enter will show me one additional line at a time.
Some show commands are available in this mode including show version which allows me to see the version
of operating system on the router.
It also allows me to see other information including the amount of RAM installed in the router which
interfaces are available on the router.
Amount of nv ram available and how much flash is installed in the router by typing it's a question mark
I'll be able to see which commands start with SH and I can use the tab key to complete a command.
So if I type shows space question mark I'll be able to see the options available for the show command.
If I press spacebar it shows me additional options one page at a time.
Pressing enter once again shows me one additional line of options.
So if I type shows space the question mark for example I can see which commands start with show the
if I press enter.
At this point I'm told that I've entered an ambiguous command because there are multiple commands that
start with Chevvy.
I can then use the key combination control P Or simply use the up arrow key to see the previously typed
command all type E and press question mark again.
And now I can see that there's only one command option available which is show version.
If I press Enter at this point the rod accepts the command because that's the only option available
to me if I try and type commands that are only valid in other modes in this mode the Rato will reject
the command.
So as an example I'll type confetti which should be typed in privilege mode.
The router doesn't except the command conforte takes me to global configuration mode but requires me
to be in privileged mode when I type that command.
So the router doesn't except the command.
It's a valid command but I'm in the wrong mode.
So the command is not accepted the hostname command is only valid in global configuration mode.
And once again if I try and type it in user mode the rod will reject the command.
It's a valid command but I'm in the wrong mode.
So the router doesn't accept it before you can do any configuration on the router switch.
You need to go to enable mode or privileged mode and the way to do that is to type ECN.
Or if I press tab the command is order completed to enable.
And now I press Enter I'm taken to privilege mode or enable mode.
Notice the prompt has changed from a greater than sign to a hash or pound sign.
Whichever term you prefer using.